Shiv Nadar University: Student Handbook 2023

Contents
Leadership Message 4-7
University Vision 8
About The University 8
University Leadership 10
	 I) Office Of The Dean Of Students	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13	
Ii) Sports 19
Iii) Student Support System 21
Iv) Complaints Committee (University Level) 25
Important Email Id’s 30
	 V) Others Services	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 31
	 Vi) Code Of Conduct	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 36
Vii) Hostel Rules 42
	 Viii) Communication With in Hostels	 	 	 	 	 	 48	
	 Ix) Information Technology & Online/Snu Links Resources	 	 	 49
	 X) Undergraduate Degree Requirements	 	 	 	 	 	 52
	 Xi) Opportunities For Undergraduate Research (Our)	 	 	 	 56
	 Xii) Student Mobility And Exchange Program	 	 	 	 	 57
	 Xiii) Library Online Public Access Catalogue	 	 	 	 	 58
	 Xiv) Alumni Relations Office	 	 	 	 	 	 	 60
Members of The Team	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 61
Annexure A & B 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 68	 	 	
Annexure C	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 69
Know Your Area 70
Emergency Services	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 71
Academic Calendar Monsoon 2023	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 72	 	 	
Campus Layout Plan	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 74

Message from the Vice-Chancellor

Dear Students,

Congratulations on your admission to the Shiv Nadar Institution of Eminence (Shiv Nadar IoE).
At Shiv Nadar IoE, we strive to empower you and realize your full potential. We have achieved much over a relatively short period, and I am confident that the coming years will elevate the university to the global stage with many more significant achievements.

Our students are at the very heart of our mission. I strongly encourage you to actively participate and follow your passion and aim for excellence in whatever you do. You will find great mentors amongst our faculty and staff, and through our vibrant campus’ social and cultural life, you will also be making connections and friendships that will last a lifetime. The future is yours to build. We will all be facilitators in your learning and aspirations. 

Congratulations again and welcome.

Dr. Ananya Mukherjee
Vice-Chancellor

Message from the Executive Director - Finance & Operations

Dear Students,

Here’s a very warm welcome to each one of you to the journey at Shiv Nadar IoE in your pursuit of gaining knowledge and self-discovery. We look forward to the arrival of the new students every year with a lot of enthusiasm and curiosity. The range of diversity, talent, interests, and the quest and openness to experiment and do something different to enrich their lives never fails to inspire us. We feel more motivated to help the students transform themselves in the four years that they commit to learn and grow.

We sincerely hope that your life at Shiv Nadar IoE will be a hugely beneficial one – one that adds for you Meaning, Learning, Joy, and Pride as you endeavor to graduate in your chosen field of study. Not just that, Shiv Nadar IoE offers a whole range of facilities in the form of world class sports facilities and various Clubs & Societies that offer opportunities to participate, learn new skills, excel in some or simply feel the joy of being part of a group. This well rounded experience in the beautiful residential campus of Shiv Nadar IoE is what will help you transform into a person ready to take on the world full of opportunities and complexities with maturity and confidence. The next four years will be full of exciting new challenges and will shape your life, thinking and future.

Our goal at this multidisciplinary University is to prepare you to be lifelong learners with curiosity, analytical abilities, problem solving approach, ability to communicate effectively, leadership and people skills and above all, develop deep humility by your realizing that you are one of the privileged few to be here at the Shiv Nadar IoE out of thousands of aspirants. Enjoy your time at the University.

Finally, work hard. There is no substitute for this. I look forward to opportunities to interact with all of you and I wish you all the best.

Mr. Raja Natarajan
Executive Director - Finance & Operations

Message from Dean of Students

Dear Students,

Welcome back to campus. I am sure you are all refreshed and rejuvenated after the semester break.
Having just joined as your Dean, I am inspired by your energy and enthusiasm as you move around the campus and engage in various activities that fill your day. Your years in college, as you transition to the real world of responsibility, work and achievement will stay with you, as a formative and memorable phase of your lives.

You are fortunate to be living and learning in the expansive, green and safe environment of an institution of eminence that believes in your all-round development. Take the most from these years, your peers and faculty and the excellent facilities that you have all around you. Enjoy your life on campus in a safe and responsible manner and grow into the best version of yourselves. I look forward to being a part of your journey and working with you to make your life and experience on campus genuinely fulfilling and memorable.

Brigadier Steve Ismail (Retd.)
Dean of Students

Message from the Associate Director and Head of Student Life

Dear Students,

It gives me immense pleasure to welcome you all to Shiv Nadar IoE! As you begin your new academic session, you are embarking on a path full of promise and hope. The Office of Student Life is committed to working with you and challenging you on this wonderful journey to take full advantage of the opportunities you will find at this great institution. Our team consists of dedicated individuals who connect, support, educate, empower, and engage with students in life outside of the classroom. Student Life aims to create and implements programs that foster student engagement, learning, and development. It initiates campus and community partnerships for effective, seamless student services and experiences. In support of the educational mission and lived values of the University, we
provide opportunities and experiences that are essential to students’ overall university experience. At Shiv Nadar IoE, we have outstanding faculty and caring staff, a beautiful campus, and an atmosphere conducive to your academic goals. Our courses are very well structured. Yeah, it is very demanding, but so is the industry that you will step into. I urge you to use your time intelligently at the University, preparing yourself for a promising future. Optimally use the library and the infrastructure you have. 

Do not violate any rules as they have been made for your well-being and safety. Take part in all kinds of activities that will hone your soft skills. I encourage you to join one or more of our student organizations (clubs and societies). All of them offer opportunities for leadership development, academic support,networking,personal growth, and community service. Be a part of various workshops, special lectures by renowned personalities, debates, theater, presentations, out-of-the-box ideas, sports, competitions, and
so on. 

Have fun while you are doing so. To all the freshers, I would want you to walk the campus, ask questions, meet faculty and staff, and learn all you can about your university. Study hard, make new friends, and get involved. These are the best times for you. We are here to help in any way we can. We hope you reach all of your goals and realize all your dreams. See you around campus.

Dr. Anshu Paliwal
Associate Director and Head of Student Life


University Vision
To empower individuals and communities to realize and exercise
universal freedom through acquisition and application of knowledge
by:
Dedicating to the development, organization, preservation, dissemination, and
application of knowledge in a wide range of fields of study.
 Committing to excellence in teaching, discovery innovation, scholarship, and
service to expand the scope of human understanding, and contributing to the
betterment of the world.
 Pledging to serve the higher education needs of State of Uttar Pradesh, India,
and the global community.

About the University
Shiv Nadar Institution of Eminence,Delhi-NCR, is a student-centric,multidisciplinary,
and research-focused University offering a wide range of academic programs at
the undergraduate, master’s and doctoral levels. The university was set up in 2011
by the Shiv Nadar Foundation, a philanthropic foundation established by Mr. Shiv
Nadar, founder of HCL. The University is in the quest to become a globally acclaimed
center for learning and innovation in the fields of engineering, natural Sciences,
humanities & social sciences, and management. The core of the university consists
of a select, world-class faculty with doctoral and postdoctoral experiences
from ranked universities all over the world. Shiv Nadar IoE has been recognized
as an ‘Institutions of Eminence’ by the Government of India.

Our Leadership

Mr. Shiv Nadar
Founder and Chancellor

Mr. Shikhar Malhotra
Pro-Chancellor

Dr. Ananya Mukherjee
Vice-Chancellor

Mr. Raja Natarajan
Executive Director, Finance &
Operations (EDFO)

Dr. Bibek Banerjee
Dean, School of Management & Entrepreneurship
Dean, Academy of Continuing Education
Director, University Strategy & Planning

Dr. Rajat Kathuria
Dean, School of Humanities & Social Sciences

Dr. Sandeep Sen
Dean, School of Engineering
Senior Professor, Computer
Sciences & Engineering

Dr. Sanjeev Galande
Dean, School of Natural Sciences
Head, Department of Life
Sciences

Dr. Suneet Tuli
Dean, Research & Partnerships
Professor, Electrical Engineering

Mr. Sudhir Naudiyal
Registrar

Brigadier Steve Ismail (Retd.)
Dean of Students

Dr. Rajeev Kumar Singh
Associate Dean, Academics
Associate Professor, Computer
Science & Engineering


Thank you for visiting your student handbook. This contains vital details on Shiv Nadar IoE’s
rules, laws, and policies. You must read and comprehend this handbook since it contains the
rules and regulations. Additionally, it offers contact information and website links. In addition
to this handbook, please make sure to consult the UG handbook and other Policies available
on the snulinks page for particular information. The aim of the handbook is to provide you with
comprehensive information about different aspects of studying at our institution, assisting you
in comprehending and navigating the various components of your academic journey with us.
This edition of the handbook pertains to the 2023-2024 academic year and will be updated
Annually.

This Student Handbook is available on the University website In life at Shiv Nadar section. the
link is https://snu.edu.in/student-life/.

Shiv Nadar IoE, Delhi-NCR, trusts students to do what they think is best for them and for
the University — and it believes in giving them the freedom and information to support their
Decisions.

In turn, the University expects students to demonstrate responsibility and self-discipline. The
intent is to create a sense of ownership that enables this behavior to come naturally. This
extends to responsible use of the resources available to you and the respect for others’ rights to
freedom and expression. The students are from diverse backgrounds, beliefs, region, religions,
cultures, perspectives, gender, and experiences. Inclusivity plays an extremely important role in
the success of Shiv Nadar IoE community. The university expects everyone to understand and
appreciate differences. The goal is to foster a diverse environment that helps everyone gain and
create a positive difference. 

I. Office Of The Dean Of Students
Shiv Nadar IoE is a fully residential campus. Life outside the Academic Blocks assumes
great importance in terms of student experience at the University.
• The Office of the Dean of Students provides all assistance in hostel, mess, healthcare,
cultural and sports activities.
• The Office provides assistance in extra-curricular initiatives as well as organization and
functioning of student governance.
• ODS also provides help and support to any student on any issue affecting the students.
• The Office also assists specially abled members of the campus community and supports
minority and economically marginalised students.
• The Office is also responsible for the formulating and enforcement of the General Code
of Conduct for the students of the University.

1.1 Student Clubs & Societies

Exploring the World of Clubs and Societies: Building Connections and Enriching Experiences. At Shiv Nadar IoE, students can connect with other like-minded students in over 50+ clubs, leadership organizations and technical societies. Whether you want to hone your skills, grow your network within the University, or just meet other students, student clubs and societies make life on campus truly vibrant. 

In educational institutions and communities worldwide, clubs and societies play a pivotal role in fostering personal growth, building connections, and providing unique opportunities for individuals to explore their passions and interests. These co-curricular serves as vibrant hubs of like-minded individuals who come together to pursue common goals, develop skills, and create lasting memories. We gladly invite all the students to delve into the world of clubs and societies and the diverse range of activities they offer. Clubs and societies allow individuals to explore and develop their interests, talents, and skills beyond the classroom.

Members often gain valuable experiences, enhance their leadership abilities, and cultivate qualities such a s teamwork, time management, and organization. Joining a club o r society allows individuals to meet people with similar interests and passions. These communities foster a n environment o f camaraderie, where members can form lasting friendships, collaborate o n projects, and build professional networks that can benefit future endeavours. 

Clubs and societies offer a range o f activities and events, including workshops, seminars, competitions, performances, and social gatherings. These opportunities expose members t o new ideas, perspectives, and experiences, fostering intellectual curiosity and personal development. By fostering camaraderie, skill development, and a sense o f belonging, clubs and societies create memorable experiences and contribute t o the holistic development o f individuals within educational institutions and local communities. So, why explore the vast and exciting world o f clubs and societies and unlock a world o f opportunities? Instagram Profiles for all the Cultural & Technical clubs are mentioned i n page no. 6 9 under Annexure C

1.2 Student startups

The University’s students make the best of the challenges and opportunities made available to them. Some of our students have started entrepreneurial endeavors while pursuing their education on campus.

1.3 Breeze 

Breeze i s the annual Techno-Cultural fest o f the University. One o f the largest o f its kind i n Delhi-NCR, breeze brings together students from across the country t o participate and revel i n a medley o f performances and events. The atmosphere w e promote a t breeze seeks t o not only foster healthy competition but also build lasting friendships. Described a s the perfect blend o f competition and top-notch entertainment b y attendees, breeze has witnessed performances b y the likes o f Nikhil D’Souza, The Local Train, Ritviz and Biswa Kalyan Rath, t o name a few. With six editions t o its legacy s o far, breeze i s steadily growing i n the fest network and brought a diverse audience from different colleges and universities. Each year, team breeze makes a greater effort to pick a theme that binds the fest together. From journeying the gully digital vast a s w e break the Internet t o travelling the globe i n global, themes over the years have given a distinct charm t o each breeze edition. I n its years-long run, Breeze has been privy t o its share o f challenges and has continued t o turn the odds against adversity. Thus, for its 2021 edition, breeze embraced the online turn and channeled its celebratory spirit through KAZE. KAZE’21 was a n amalgamation o f online performances from jamming sessions and stand ups t o events such a s Scavenger Vortex, Burst the Rhymes and Tall Tails. From its opening ceremony t o its ending, each student associated with KAZE brought life to this challenging endeavor.

Our inaugural event 2023! The launch event gives everyone a taste o f the exuberance that Breeze has t o offer and sets the tone for the upcoming celebrations. Mr. Aashish Solanki, the champion o f Comicstaan 3 , succeeded the stage a t the University’s Breeze annual launch event this year 2023. I n the midst o f all this enthusiasm, the theme o f Breeze was revealed a t the launch event! 

Passionate artists and bands such a s The Twin Strings, Progressive Brothers, and dream note performed their events this year, enhancing the Breeze experience t o a n unprecedented level. The core’s constant goal i s t o make Breeze bigger and better every year, establishing new standards for universities across the country, not just Shiv Nadar IoE. The theme was Bifrost, a n alternate reality experience that explored different aspects o f how w e perceive things, thereby making our current reality more diverse. Approximately 5000 students visited from other colleges and Universities.

1.4 Housing and accommodation

The student hostels are state-of-the-art and gender segregated for UG students. They are designed to cater to individual requirements of personal space, while also incorporating a culture of shared living. Each room is designed as a comfortable independent unit with basic in-built utilities. The hostel facilities are spread over 15 buildings across the campus. Wardens are assigned to each hostel to ensure smooth functioning of various facets of hygiene, safety and security and miscellaneous needs of the student community.

Study Rooms

Each hostel has designated study rooms with well-lit and ventilated rooms, where students can study, do their academic projects etc. These rooms have separate air conditioning, are under CCTV surveillance and access control for entry. All study rooms have LAN ports on the desk that offer data at high speed to be utilized on a rotating basis by all resident students. These 24x7 study rooms are meant for academic work and the users are strongly advised to maintain the decorum of the place.

Laundry Services

The hostels have the latest equipment to make sure that students have an efficient laundry system. While an authorized vendor provides on campus laundry services, there are domestic washing machines in hostels for use, by students towards their miscellaneous needs. The miscellaneous needs should be only small / sensitive clothes that cannot be given to Laundry. Washing of blanket / shoes / jackets / foot mats is not allowed in the washing machines. The washing machines are functional from 0600 hours to 2330 hours in all hostels for 7 days in a week.

Recreation Rooms Common rooms offer recreational facilities such as TV, table tennis and yoga/other activities. Students can use these facilities at their leisure.

Room configuration and facilities

The rooms in various buildings are of different configuration - single accommodation with attached or common washrooms, twin accommodation with common washrooms,studiotypeaccommodation. The rooms and washrooms are wellfitted and are designed to maintain hygiene standards. The common areas are Wi-Fi enabled in all the hostels. The common areas of hostels are cleansed daily, while the individual hostel rooms are cleaned twice per week by the house keeping staff.

Pantry

Each hostel is provided with a pantry on the ground floor, equipped with microwave oven, egg boilers and induction cook tops, toaster and kettle. Purified water is available at all floors for the convenience of the students even at odd hours. The pantry may be used only for preparation of light snacks and are not meant to be an alternative to the dining halls. Residents are to ensure that the pantries are used and maintained in a neat and hygienic manner. Misuse of pantry facilities may result in debarment for further access.

1.5 Health & Wellness

Health & Wellness Center on campus is located near the F Block. It provides physical and
mental health support through a primary health care set up and an OPD. Pre-hospital
management care is done on campus and all medical emergencies are provided on 24x7
basis.

It has a general and emergency wards with necessary equipment, managed by professionally
qualified and well-trained paramedic staff. 24x7 nursing staff & ambulance are available
as well. A basic life support (BLS) ambulance and patient transport ambulance (PTA) are
available 24x7, to support transfer of patient to next level of care for further specialized
treatment when required. Deployed medical staff on campus has well defined OPD slots
which may be booked by logging on www.bookonlineappointment.com
A team of four resident doctors (general physicians), two resident physiotherapists,
psychologist counsellors and a visiting psychiatrist, may be consulted face to face and in
some cases online.

The campus also houses a pharmacy (open from 11:00 AM to 7:00 PM) catering to all
OPD requirements along with general ‘Over the Counter’ medicine, orders for prescribed
medicines can be placed and other products connected with health and hygiene are also
available.

Pathological samples are collected at the Centre by Dr. Lal Path Lab or SRL Lab nearby for
testing. A 10% discount is offered to students and staff.

We understand that living in a new environment outside the familiarity of home can create
overwhelming and stressful circumstances. Counseling services helps people navigate
difficult life situations. It provides the tools and insights to manage mental health issues,
such as anxiety and depression. Two psychologists (counselors) stay on campus. In addition,
a psychiatrist visits the Health Center regularly.

For specialized treatment, we refer to the following super specialty hospitals.
1.  Kailash Hospital Greater Noida
2. Yatharth Hospital Greater Noida
3.  Fortis Hospital Greater Noida

Medical Insurance

We are committed to the overall health and wellbeing of our students. In addition to the 24X7
medical center on-campus, we have also tied-up with ICICI Lombard to provide medical
insurance cover for our students. This will cover medical issues that require hospitalization
beyond the on-campus services.   This is a seamless policy which covers cashless hospital
admission and treatment up to ₹2 lakh including cover for COVID-19 treatment. It is being
extended to all students (except Ph.D. candidates who are covered by another Insurance
Policy) joining SN IOE from the Monsoon 2020 semester onwards. The enrollment and policy
details will be communicated to the students as part of their registration process when they
join Shiv Nadar IoE.

Salient features of the Policy are:
• Valid for 12 months, including while on leave.
• 4000+ hospals are covered across the country.
• No room capping.
• No waiting periods.
• Ambulance charges up to ₹1500 per hospitalization.
• Pre-Hospitalization and Post Hospitalization for 30 days & 60 days respectively
  are covered.

For any queries related to Medical Insurance please contact:

Mr. Ameetava Mukherjee, Warden (Boys Hostel) – 8017979461

II. SPORTS

True growth requires stretching your boundaries and experiencing the unfamiliar. SN IoE
encourages all students to not only excel in academics but also stretch their boundaries
through athletics and activities. The sports program at Shiv Nadar IoE, offers activities
in sports, recreation, and fitness, adding a great deal of vitality through recreational and
competitive events organised in-house and throughout the northern region, India. Through
their participation in athletics, students learn that awards and accolades do not define
success in life, but rather the positive impact we have on others

2.1 Facilities

Indoor Sports Facilities:

• 4 Badminton Tera flex courts
• 2 Basketball wooden courts
• 6 Table Tennis tables arena in ISC, 10
Tables in Hostels
• 4 Squash Courts
• 1 Pool Room
• Chess and carom
• Student recreational room
• Gym
• Running Track
• Yoga Hall
• Artificial Climbing wall

Outdoor Sports Facilities:

Shiv Nadar  IOE has outdoor facilities that are operational with floodlight facilities including:

• 2 Badminton synthetic courts
• 3 Basketball synthetic courts
• 3 Tennis synthetic courts
• 1 Cricket Ground – 4 Cricket Nets
• 2 Football ground
• 2 Volleyball courts
• Equestrian
• Golf
• Outdoor Artificial Climbing wall




2.2 Surge (The Annual Sports Fest)

The annual sports fest of Shiv Nadar IoE, Delhi-NCR. Surge brings together students from across the country to participate and revel in a medley of tournaments. It envisions bringing about a new Sporting wave not only for the university’s students, but also for other universities and colleges.

2.3 Shiv Nadar IoE Sports League

Shiv Nadar IoE SL is a student sports council initiative, which was introduced in 2013. Shiv
Nadar IoE SL objective has helped the university sports to build stronger teams and provide
an opportunity for searching sports talent among the students. Over the years, participation
in Shiv Nadar IoE SL has increased among the student’s community of Shiv Nadar IoE sports.
The students are divided and auctioned on (IPL format) in four clubs namely Falcons, Phoenix,
Panthers and Bulls.

External Participation

The students are encouraged to participate for which training is provided to harness their
talent in various sports tournaments, participating in events with like-minded universities
through sports tournaments at IIT’s to AIU/National/International tournaments.

Points to be considered by the students:
• All students are provided equal access to all the sporting facilities/activities with
prior sign up to choose an activity of their choice and time slot. All students will be
required to strictly adhere to the rules laid out for every activity.
• All students to bring their own personal equipment for playing sports such
as racquets for racquet sports, balls, shuttles, cricketers must have their own
personalized kit, sports t- shirts/apparel , towels, caps, water bottles etc. New/
existing students should also arrange in advance merchandise like sports specific/
running shoes with extra pairs, studs, non- marking shoes for indoor sports,
basketball shoes, tennis shoes, cricket shoes etc.
• Students requiring usage of lockers at indoor sports complex will be provided on
requests and these lockers are not to be shared. Athletes will be responsible for the
contents of their lockers. Missing/lost keys will attract heavy fine.

III. STUDENT SUPPORT SYSTEM
3.1 Family Group
All first-year undergraduates will be supported by ‘Family Groups’, guided by a family head
selected from the senior classes, to aid in a seamless and friendly transition during the initial
phases of settling in. They will guide, support, and facilitate the students’ access to any necessary
information. This process is managed by the ODS.
3.2 ODS Helpdesk
ODS help desk acts as the primary level of support for the students and functioning on extended
hours in the campus. All queries and other student related issues are taken care at ODS help
Desk.

3.3 On-Campus Jobs (OCJ)
Undergraduate students are provided opportunities to gain experiential and applied learning,
to help them inculcate ethics, leadership qualities, and service attributes. These opportunities
help students to earn an additional income and help them to imbibe a sense of accountability
and  responsibility. Possible jobs under this policy may include (but are not limited to) extending
assistance in laboratory and library management, monitoring projects, conducting and
analyzing  various feedback, managing help desks, aiding departments in enabling functions
of the University like Admissions, Career Development Centre, Office of Dean of Students,
Administration, Hostels, Sports, and allied activities, etc.
The OCJ process is exactly like a formal ‘recruitment’ process in any well-managed company.
The positions are formally advertised to the student community, and all eligible UG students
(CGPA above 6.0) who meet the job’s skill requirements are free to apply. Candidates are
interviewed by the respective departments and are made an offer upon selection. Students will
be paid 100 rupees per hour for OCJs during full sessions, with a maximum limit of 20 hours
per week. During vacations, the payment will be 75 rupees per hour, with a maximum limit of
40 hours per week.
For students engaged in OCJ during summer vacations, the hostel fee for that period will be
borne by the sponsoring department.

Eligibility:
OCJs are open to all undergraduate students and few masters’ degree programs
(without any Teaching Assistantship and for jobs specific to post-graduate programs)
of Shiv Nadar IoE. However, students must maintain satisfactory academic progress
and adhere to the policies and guidelines set by the Institute.

Circulars and Application Process: Circulars for OCJs are posted via email from
the Office of Dean of Students, along with an application form and job description.
Interested students can submit the application form to apply for the jobs.

OCJs at Shiv Nadar IoE provide an excellent opportunity for students to gain
practical experience,develop skills, and earn some extra income. Students are
encouraged to keep an eye on the circulars and apply for OCJs as per their interests
and availability.

3.4 Campus Affairs – Hostel Committee
We follow a student-centric administration. To that effect, the Student Led Hostel Committee
looks after the Hostel Affairs. The Student Council selects a Secretary of Campus Affairs and
assigns Senators to be the Heads of the Hostel Committee. These four Senators along with the
Secretary of Campus Affairs conduct interviews and select members for the Hostel Committee.
The Hostel Committee consists of members, with at least one person from each hostel block
having the status of a student and residing in the respective blocks. The Heads of the Hostel
Committee report to the Secretary of Campus Affairs regarding the effective discharge of
duties by the Hostel Committee.

Duties of the Hostel Committee:

The heads of the hostel committee report to the secretary of campus affairs
regarding the effective discharge of duties by the hostel committee
They interface with their respective wardens at least once a fortnight and discuss
with them the issues in their respective hostels
They represent the general welfare of the students residing in the hostel and assist
the council of wardens in maintaining the living standards
The committee in coordination with the maintenance, ensures proper maintenance
of the hostel rooms, common room, toilets, and premises.
They report any unauthorized use or misuse of hostel rooms and bring to notice any
untoward incidence occurring in the hostel premises to the warden
The hostel committee meets at least once a month. These meetings are presided
over by the secretary of campus affairs. Once in two months the committee along
with Campus affair Secretary meets the Hostel Head Administration.
The campus affairs secretary along with the hostel committee conducts hostel
townhall in regular periodic intervals.

3.5 Cycles on campus
At Shiv Nadar IoE, we believe in maintaining a green campus. We have a fleet of 55 bicycles.
Our aim is to encourage use of bicycles and, thereby, help our campus remain sustainable,
congestion and pollution-free, and healthy.
Our student organisation, the Shiv Nadar IoE Cycling Club, is responsible for maintaining all of
these bicycles. Biweekly rentals are provided for bicycles. The person renting it shall be treated
as the owner of the bicycle until its return at the end of the rental term. In order to stay informed
and coordinate with the proper authorities, they must join a WhatsApp group. The renter is
liable for the bicycle, including any damage, throughout the rental term, and must have the lock
and key at all times. If the bicycle is damaged while the student is using it, they may have to
pay a fee decided by the campus affairs secretary. By the due time, the cycle must have been
returned. Additional fees or penalties may be imposed for noncompliance. The Campus Affairs
Secretary, the Dean of Students, shall have ultimate authority over any questions or concerns
regarding the planning, implementing and renting policy.

Renting a bicycle is easy:
1. Students will be notified via email of the
availability, charges of the bicycles and their
designated meeting spot.
2. After providing their information to the
volunteer in charge and paying the mentioned
amount they would be able to pick up a bicycle.
3. Students will receive an email with
instructions for returning the bicycle one day
prior to the scheduled return date from the
Campus Affairs Secretaries.
4. The students can bring the bicycle to the
designated location.

IV. COMPLAINTS COMMITTEE
(UNIVERSITY LEVEL)
4.1 Anti-Ragging Cell
As per the directives issued by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India and the University Grants
Commission, ragging is cognizable and punishable offence and is totally banned in or out of the
University. The University shall take action in accordance with the UGC regulations on curbing
the menace of ragging in higher educational institutions, 2009, against those found guilty of
ragging and/or abetting ragging, actively or passively, or being part of a conspiracy to promote
ragging. For details of Anti-Ragging Regulations on curbing the menace of ragging in higher
educational institutions 2009, please see the regulations at:
https://snu.edu.in/pdf/Anti-Ragging-Affidavit.pdf
The University gives paramount importance to safety and security of every student and follow
a zero-tolerance policy against ragging. Any student found indulging in ragging or any related
activity will be dealt with strictly by appropriate disciplinary action as prescribed under Clause
9 of the Anti-Ragging Regulation of UGC.
Please read the following carefully:
1. Ragging will include but not limited to actions such as: display of noisy, disorderly conduct,
or performing any act which causes or is likely to cause physical or psychological harm or raise
apprehension or fear, shame or embarrassment to a student in any academic institution.
This includes teasing, abusing, playing practical jokes or causing hurt to students asking the
student to do any act or perform something which a student will not in the ordinary course be
willing to do. For more details, please refer to Clause 3 of Anti Ragging Regulation of UGC in
the link given above.
2. UGC Regulations on curbing the menace of ragging in higher educational institutions include
any act of physical or mental abuse (including bullying and exclusion) targeted at another
student (Fresher or otherwise) on the ground of color, race, religion, caste, ethnicity, gender
(including transgender), sexual orientation, appearance, nationality, regional origins, linguistic
identity, place of birth, place of residence or economic background.
3. Students are subsequently required to upload the confirmation email on the SPC portal
before making the fee payment every year in the beginning of the academic year.
4. It shall be the responsibility of the parents/guardians of fresher to promptly bring any instance
of ragging to the notice of the authorities of the University.

Process for filing anti-ragging undertaking/affidavit:
i. Student may visit the link https://antiragging.in/ or https://antiragging.in/affidavit_
registration_disclaimer.html or https://antiragging.in/affidavit_university_form.php
and fill up online anti-ragging affidavit by the student/ parent/guardians.
ii. After filling this form online, students will receive a confirmation email at their
registered email Id with reference to their submission of Affidavit.
iii. The confirmation email should be forwarded to antiragging@snu.edu.in and a
screenshot/PDF of the confirmation email should also be uploaded at the document
upload section on the pre-registration portal.

4.2 Anti ragging squad
Every institution University including Deemed to be University imparting technical education
shall also constitute a smaller body to be known as the Anti-Ragging Squad to be nominated
by the Head of the Institution with such representation as may be considered necessary for
maintaining vigil, oversight and patrolling functions and shall remain mobile, alert and active at
all times. Provided that the Anti-Ragging Squad shall have representation of various members
of the campus community and shall have no outside representation.
Terms of Reference for ARS:
The ARS shall take all measures which are necessary to prohibit and prevent ragging in Shiv
Nadar IoE.
To perform duties as set out in the UGC Regulations.
Primary role of ARS will be to maintain vigil, oversight, patrolling, and conduct surprise checks
in the hostels and other places vulnerable to incidents of ragging.

4.3 Disciplinary Committee

The Disciplinary Committee (DC) of Shiv Nadar IoE, under the aegis of the Office of Dean
of Students, is responsible for handling minor offences, and it would serve as a first-level
mechanism to deal with student-related disciplinary cases.
For further information kindly refer to the “#ST 212 Policy for Dealing with violation of the
Student Code of Conduct” in SNU Links.
“#ST 212 Policy for Dealing with violation of the Student Code of Conduct” in
SNU Links. https://snulinks.snu.edu.in/snuPolicies/students/

4.4 Proctoral Board
The Proctor of Shiv Nadar IoE Deemed to be University shall be the Chairperson of the Proctorial
Board (PB) and will be responsible for handling Major Infractions and Indiscipline on campus
and would serve as the second-level mechanism to deal with the student-related disciplinary
cases.
For further information kindly refer to the “#ST 212 Policy for Dealing with violation of the
Student Code of Conduct” in SNU Links.
“#ST 212 Policy for Dealing with violation of the Student Code of Conduct” in
SNU Links. https://snulinks.snu.edu.in/snuPolicies/students/

4.5 Procedure of Complaint/ Enquiry and Punishment
For further information kindly refer to the “#ST 212 Policy for Dealing with violation of the
Student Code of Conduct” in SNU Links.
“#ST 212 Policy for Dealing with violation of the Student Code of Conduct” in
SNU Links. https://snulinks.snu.edu.in/snuPolicies/students/

4.6 Internal Complaints Committee

The Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) also called the ‘Gender Committee’, at Shiv Nadar
Institute of Eminence (Shiv Nadar IoE) (Deemed to be University), Delhi NCR, has a policy for
the Prevention of Sexual Harassment (PoSH) on campus.

Shiv Nadar IoE is committed to providing a place of work and study free of gender bias and
sexual harassment, intimidation or exploitation. It is expected that all students, faculty and staff
will treat one another and visitors with dignity and respect. All members of the Shiv Nadar IoE
community, including those who are in temporary or short-term positions and employed with
third party vendors, are expected to contribute towards ensuring that the workplace is free of
gender and sexual harassment.

The responsibility of promoting gender sensitivity and taking action in cases of sexual
harassment has been vested with Internal Complaints Committee. Reports of sexual harassment
are taken seriously and dealt with promptly by the ICC in accordance with the provisions of the
University Grants Commission (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal of Sexual Harassment
of women employees and students in higher educational institutions) Regulations, 2015. The
University has recently re-constituted the ICC w.e.f. 11 April 2023, as per the above mentioned
UGC Regulations , and the Government of India notification no. 14 of 2013, regarding ‘The
sexual harassment of women at workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act 2013’.
The regulatory framework of ICC is guided by UGC requirements as well as Shiv Nadar IoE’s
Gender Policy.

All students are required to attend a mandatory orientation conducted by the ICC during their
first year at Shiv Nadar IoE, Delhi NCR. Club functionaries and members of student Government
have to take these sessions before they can take over their duties. The orientation seeks to
educate participants regarding sexual consent, promote understanding of an environment of
cooperation and dialogue among members of the University, while also making students aware
of their rights and duties.

The ICC and the University strongly believe in the importance of fostering gender equity, and
maintaining a campus free of sexual harassment to ensure that our students have the best
possible environment to pursue their goals.
All students are advised to finish a one-hour online course on ‘Consent Matters’ that is offered
by the online division of Sage Publication.
Any aggrieved person (employees, students, third party vendors) may file a formal written
complaint against any incident of sexual harassment by email, to the Chairperson of the
ICC at gendercommittee@snu.edu.in

Shiv Nadar IoE Gender Policy: https://snu.edu.in/sites/default/
files/SNIOE-ICC-Policy-Apr2023.pdf

4.7 Students Grievance Redressal Cell (SGRC)

In consonance with the University Grants Commission (Redressal of Grievances of Students)
Regulations, 2023, the Shiv Nadar IoE has constituted the SGRC. The objective is to provide
opportunities for redressal of certain grievances of students already enrolled in Shiv Nadar IoE,
as well as those seeking admission to Shiv Nadar IoE, and a mechanism thereto. The students
may register their concerns related to grievances to the mentioned email ID. The same will be
examined and addressed in the SGRC.

The email id for the grievances redressal is sgrc@snu.edu.in.

4.8) Disability Support Cell :
The University follows the persons with Disability Act 2016 and the rules made there under. The
students covered by the Disability Act can make a complaint to the Disability support Cell.
Email Id: disability.support@snu.edu.in

IMPORTANT EMAIL ID’S

ODS Helpdesk – odshelpdesk@snu.edu.in

IT helpdesk – ithelpdesk@snu.edu.in

Anti-Ragging Committee – antiragging@snu.edu.in

Disability Support Cell – disability.support@snu.edu.in

Disciplinary Committee – disciplinary.committee@snu.edu.in

Internal Complaint Committee (ICC) -gendercommittee@snu.edu.in

Proctoral Board – proctor@snu.edu.in

Students Grievances Redressal Committee – sgrc@snu.edu.in

Maintenance work in hostels – callbob@snu.edu.in

V. OTHERS SERVICES
5.1 Student ID card
Student ID card is an accountable document that earns many rights and privileges, besides
establishing identity. Loss of identity card is a serious offence as it may lead to misuse of a
student’s identity. SN IOE has an online process for applying for a duplicate identity card. The
tab for applying is active on SNU Links.

The process also facilitates the printing of a temporary ID card to meet any urgent need, like
appearing in an exam etc.

Process for applying duplicate ID card:
• Student can log into the ID card management system application with their NetID and
submit a request for a Duplicate ID Card.

Request will come to ODS for Approval.

Once ODS approves, the request will be routed to finance department. The student will
need to pay Rs 500/- for duplicate ID card to the finance team who will update the paid
status in the application. The approval by ODS is not automatic, repeat offenders will be
dealt with severely.

The request will reach the administration team who will prepare the new ID card after
payment is confirmed by finance. When the card is ready for issue, admin will update status
on the app and the student will get an email notification for collecting ID card from admin
Department

Note:
In case of an emergency, if a student needs a temporary ID card, the same can be
requested via SNU links ‘ ID Card Management’ application. A temporary card will
be automatically sent to student email which would have a validity of 48hrs only. The
student can take print out of that, paste a passport sized photo and get it attested by
their warden or ODS and use it for purposes of examination/entry and exit to campus
only. Only one temporary ID card will be issued in the entire tenure of student.
Important   process of “on the spot” Issue of temporary ID card from ODS is discontinued.
There is a unique ID for each ID request. Only systems generated temporary ID card,
based on student application is allowed.

5.2 Food Options on Campus

Dining Halls
The University campus houses students from 27 States & UTs, and the cuisine available on the
campus reflects that diversity. Catering to the cultural and food preferences of students, the
three large dining Halls (DH 1, 2 & 3) provide a full spectrum of gastronomic delights. The dining
areas adhere to the highest standards of hygiene consciousness and are well furnished and fully
equipped.
Functional seven days a week, the dining halls offer an assortment of Indian and International
food choices and are serviced by certified caterers with HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical
Control Points). Due diligence is exercised in bringing the vendors onboard and rigorous checks
are in place by the administration to ensure compliance to the highest standards of hygiene and
quality. In addition, there is a students’ food committee, which participates in finalizing menu
with vendors and conducts audit of all food operations on the campus.

The dining halls provide breakfast, lunch, evening snacks and dinner as per the published menu
as well as certain a-la carte options. A midnight meal is served till 2:00 AM every day for those
who burn the mid night oil in various academic and extracurricular pursuits.

Eatery - Description
DH 1/2/3 - The University’s mess, catering all-day.
Grab n Go - Breakfast from 9-10 AM in DH1 from Monday to Friday. Brown Paper Bags used [Menu structure: Veg Sandwich, Whole Fruit, Muffin].
Fruit Shop - The fruit juice stall at Chess Gardens for fresh fruit, salad, and fresh fruit juice are available all days from 10 AM to 6 PM.
A&B - Eateries in between A and B Academic Blocks. Quench (A&B)A fast food shop that sells a variety of items ranging from burgers and pizzas to parathas and pav bhaji. Drinks include shakes and mocktails.
Anna’s Café (A&B) - An outlet selling various food items such as dosas, parotta, filter coffee, idly, vada, biriyani, etc.
C&D - Eateries in between C and D Academic Blocks.
Naveen’s Chai Point (C&D) - Chai point selling hot and cold milk-based beverages, Maggie, ice creams, ice tea, etc.
Swad Kathi Roll (C&D) - Kathi Roll centre with 50+ varieties of veg and non-veg rolls, poha, pizza, soya chaap, fries, etc.
Surya Food and Beverages (C&D) - Packaged food & cold beverages, chaat items, samosa, ice creams and fast food items (such as burgers and wraps).
Rama Enterprises (C&D) - Fresh juices and milkshakes made on the spot, momos and sandwiches, etc.
SHOPPING ARCADE - Eateries at the shopping arcade.
Chocovilla (Grabbo) - Café selling pastries and continental dishes.
Georgia Café - Bakery, fast food items and packaged food.
19TH HOLE - A restaurant style food joint located near G Block.
NESCAFE - Located in the E block, a Nestle franchise selling pastries and Nescafe branded coffee, alongside other Nestle products.
VENDING MACHINE - There are several UPI/wallet enabled vending machines on the campus located in the hostel clusters, R block, D block.

5.3 Courier desk
The online delivery courier is placed in D block, Students can collect their online ordered
package from the courier desk/racks.

5.4 Transport
The university-chartered buses are available for students on the weekends on paid basis. The bus
shuttles between a Noida GIP and the University. The Student Transport Committee manages
the service, and the trips are planned on the recommendation of the committee.
For Cab bookings, students may take help from the following authorized service providers.
University vendors for Personal booking

Mr. Mukesh - +919910699688 ( HBBS )
Mr. Pankaj +91-99998 02256 ( Giriraj )
Mr. Vikas + 91-9818600097 (Noida cabs )

Student Transport
• Sat – Sun – AC Bus from SN IOE To GIP Mall (Noida ) At 9:00 And 18:45 Pm back at
11:00 And 20:00 @ Rs -100/ Per Single trip.
• Sat – Sun – AC Bus from SN IoE To Pari Chowk (Gr Noida ) At 12:00 And Pari Chowk
to SN IOE at 14:00 • And 19:00 @ Rs -50/ Per Single trip.
Shiv Nadar IOE Internal Shuttle
Shuttle service is available every 20 minutes from Main Gate – Tower 10 – A Block –
Library – Inner Gate (Hostel) – Main Gate. Social distancing norms must be strictly
followed, and the students must not force the driver to accommodate more than the
allowed number of passengers inside the shuttle.

5.5 Stay at visitor’s hostel for guests of students
Visitors Hostel is available for stay of bona fide guests of students, subject to availability and
booking as per laid down process, given below.
•
A student seeking permission to entertain a guest has to send a mail to ODS Helpdesk for
booking VH in the specific name of person(s), indicating relationship to sponsor student.
Emails by guests themselves/ those from a non SN IoE ID will not be entertained. The
request for VH booking will be considered only for parents of the students.
The email should have following details for a VH room booking:
Name of Student
Roll Number of Student
Relationship of visitors with student
Number of visitors, names and attachment of government ID proof of each of the visitors
Reason for visiting
Dates on which the room is required (date of arrival and departure)

Rates for rooms may be ascertained from the ODS help desk. Meals are available on a
chargeable basis and the payment should be made at VH office.
The admin department as per availability via email will confirm bookings. The confirmation
email should be shown to the authorities at VH office as and when requested. The same will
be checked at visitor’s hostel by the staff on duty. It is advisable that the students inform
D Block security about arrival details of the guests to make the process smoother. The
security might facilitate pickup from Gate no.1 by electrical buggies, if needed.
Visitors hostel booking should be made at least 3 working days prior to requirement.
(Working days Mon-Fri).
•Driver (if any) accompanying the visitors, can be accommodated on a paid basis.
•Students are not allowed to enter visitor’s hostel and guests will not be permitted inside
student hostels. VH Reception Desk provides them with Guest Wi-Fi access.
•Guests would need to make their own travel arrangements to reach SN IoE. In case of self-
driven cars, the same would need to be parked at Parking 1.

In case of an extreme emergency, kindly contact the D block security desk or dean.students@
snu.edu.in.

VI. CODE OF CONDUCT

This policy serves as a guiding framework that outlines the expectations for behavior and
establishes clear consequences for any breaches. By establishing a policy that addresses
violations in a fair and consistent manner, the institution can ensure accountability, protect its
members, and promote a culture of respect, professionalism, and mutual understanding. In this
policy document, we will explore the importance of such a policy and its role in creating a safe
and welcoming environment for all individuals involved.

6.1 Freedom with responsibility
Shiv Nadar IoE, Delhi-NCR, trusts students to do what they think is best for them and for
the University — and it believes in giving them the freedom and information to support their
decisions. In turn, the University expects students to demonstrate responsibility and self-
Discipline.

6.2 Celebrating diversity
The students are from diverse backgrounds, beliefs, religions, cultures, perspectives, gender,
and experiences. Inclusivity plays an extremely important role in the success of this community.
Discrimination based on physical appearance, gender, sex, caste, creed, color, religion, region,
or culture to be avoided and if reported will be dealt under the provisions made in University
Code of Conduct.

6.3 Respect for Rule of Law and University Policies
Students should not indulge in any activity that causes obstruction to teaching, learning,
research and administration.

6.4 Shiv Nadar IoE Observes Zero Tolerance For:
Zero-Tolerance Offences –
Shiv Nadar IoE Deemed to be University observes zero tolerance for offences as mentioned
in “#ST 212 Policy for Dealing with violation of the Student Code of Conduct”
in SNU Links
1. No person who is a student of a University shall commit ragging, which includes but
is not limited to teasing, embarrassing, humiliating, assaulting and/or using criminal
force or criminal intimidation, wrongfully restraining, or confining or causing hurt and /
or taking introduction. In interpreting the acts of ragging recourse would also be taken
to the definition of ragging as is stipulated in Vishwa Jagriti Matter (1999) and the UGC
Regulation on curbing the menace of ragging in Higher Educational Institutions, 2019.
2. No persons shall cause sexual harassment at study place and extended study place and
every person is expected not to commit offences as is detailed in the Sexual Harassment
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and University
Grants Commission (Prevention, prohibition, and redressal of sexual harassment of
women employees and students in higher educational institutions) Regulation 2015.
3. Procuring and/or Possessing and/or Consumption and/or Aiding and/or Selling of any
narcotic drug or psychotropic substances.
4. Causing injury to the faculty, staff, administrative members of the University in and
Off-campus.

Zero-Tolerance:
The penalty for offences classified under Zero Tolerance, Shiv Nadar IoE Deemed to be
University would follow the UGC Guidelines/Notifications including the judgment of the
Supreme Court on the subject and violations thereof may also lead to suspension and
expulsion from University from case-to-case basis. The University will assist the victim in
filing an FIR, if they so desire to file an FIR, also in some cases the University may become
a complainant /informant and may report the case to the police and file an FIR.

6.5 Hostel Expulsion:
The students awarded the decision of ‘Hostel Expulsion’ by the internal disciplinary committees
will be asked to vacate the hostel with immediate effect and will be considered to be expelled
from the hostel, for the entire duration of the mentioned semester.
For further information kindly refer to the “#ST 212 Policy for Dealing with violation of the
Student Code of Conduct” in SNU Links.

6.6 Suspension
Any student found guilty of persistent violation of guidelines shall be temporarily barred from
attending classes, not allowed to stay inside hostels, barred from giving examinations, or
participating in any university activities.
For further information kindly refer to the “#ST 212 Policy for Dealing with violation of the
Student Code of Conduct” in SNU Links.

6.7 Termination
Permanent severance of the student’s relationship with the Shiv Nadar IoE. .Any student found
guilty of persistent violation of guidelines shall be expelled or terminated from the Shiv Nadar
IoE (for more information please refer to the Policy for dealing with Violation of the Student
Code of Conduct).
For further information kindly refer to the “#ST 212 Policy for Dealing with violation of the
Student Code of Conduct” in SNU Links.

Employees & Students Movement-

Upon arrival at the main gate entry point of the Shiv Nadar IoE campus, all employees,
students, and visitors are required to present their identity cards. Any items restricted by
the university and government authorities will not be permitted on campus. To facilitate
this, luggage screening will be conducted using X-Ray Baggage Scanner Machines.
Additionally, individuals will pass through a Door Frame Metal Detector (DFMD). In case of
suspicion, handheld metal detectors will also be employed.
Prior to entering the campus, students are to complete a biometric punch on the
designated biometric machine installed at the main gate.
At the main gate, the students/scholars/visitors may be randomly subject to a breath
analyser test. If test results are found to be more than than 30ug/100 ml/high air
oVisitors will not be allowed inside the campus.
oStudents/scholars will be sent to the Wellness centre for further medical checkups
and treatment as prescribed. The parents of the students shall be informed, and
disciplinary action will be initiated as per university rules.
Female Students will be scanned and tested on a breath Analyser by a female guard only.

6.8 Penalty and Actions on the Latecomers
The Office of Dean of Students, Shiv Nadar IoE, will implement the penalty and actions against
the latecomers.  The Office of Dean of Students handles such matters as disciplinary violations,
and students can pick up their ID cards the next working day after providing an acceptable
reason and signing a register.
Undergraduate, Postgraduate and MBA degree students (except PhD scholars) who arrive
after 8:00 p.m. on weekdays and 9:00 p.m. on weekends (Saturday and Sunday) must leave
their ID card with security. Late arrivals without a valid reason and proof will be penalised.
A valid reason includes attending academic talks or conferences, and proof of such events,
like an invitation from the organizing organization, must be provided. All Undergraduates,
Postgraduate and MBA degrees students are expected to follow these rules and procedures.
Both the penalty and the action will be applicable for each student per semester, which is
from July / August to December and January to May (as applicable). This arrangement will be
reviewed at the end of Monsoon Semester 2023.
The Process
• Latecomers (UG, PG, MBA, students) entering after 8:00 pm on all weekdays and 9:00 pm on
weekends would be required to deposit their id cards with the security. Deposing of ID cards
will be on all days.
• The Office of the DS will receive the data of the latecomer students from Main Gate #1
security on all days.
• The wardens will be sent the report once the Office of DS receives data within 24hrs.
Penalty and Actions:
1. First-Time Late Entry – Respective wardens will issue a written warning within 24 hrs; gate
pass,night out, and day out will be banned for a week. A copy of the warning letter will be
emailed to parents/guardians.
2. Second Time - Gate Pass will be withheld for 15 days, and a fine of INR1000/- (Thousand
only) will be imposed; payment of the same can be made via a QR code at the Office of DS.
Respective wardens will issue a written warning, and a copy of the warning letter will be emailed
to parents/guardians.
3. Third Time - The matter will be forwarded to the Disciplinary Committee (DC); till the decision
is communicated by the DC to the student, the Gate pass will be withheld. Parents/ Guardians
will be notified via email.

Kindly note:
a. Only Gate No.1 is to be used for Exit and Entry – Bio Metrics are available only out there.
b. By design, it is only Gate No.1 that is meant to be used for Students to use for Entry and Exit
c. In extraordinary circumstances (e.g., Coming back late at night after disembarking from a bus
near Gate no.2), the Guards at Gate no.2 will allow entry after checking the ID card and following
the security procedures in place.
d. If and when you leave along with Faculty in their car, for instance, kindly ensure that you leave
via Gate No. 1 and register your biometrics. Kindly request the faculty to do this for you. They
will oblige and appreciate your concern for adherence to the rules.
e. Notwithstanding, any technological enhancement in the entry/exit system shall be intimated
from time to time.
f. Indemnity Declaration to be taken from all new students/ scholars at the time of their
admission. For others, it will be taken separately at the beginning of the semester.

6.9 Entry and Exit protocol for Ph.D. Scholars
All PhD scholars will be required to register their biometrics at the exit and entrance gates. They
are also mandatorily required to carry their Shiv Nadar IoE ID card in physical form which will be
verified by the security guards.
Kindly note:
a. Only Gate No.1 is to be used for Exit and Entry – Bio Metrics are available only out there.
b. By design, it is only Gate No.1 that is meant to be used for Students to use for Entry and Exit
c. In extraordinary circumstances (e.g., Coming back late at night after disembarking from a bus
near Gate no.2), the Guards at Gate no.2 will allow entry after checking the ID card and following
the security procedures in place.
d. If and when you leave along with Faculty in their car, for instance, kindly ensure that you leave
via Gate No. 1 and register your biometrics. Kindly request the faculty to do this for you. They
will oblige and appreciate your concern for adherence to the rules.
e. Notwithstanding, any technological enhancement in the entry/exit system shall be intimated
from time to time.
f. Indemnity Declaration to be taken from all new students/ scholars at the time of their
admission. For others, it will be taken separately at the beginning of the semester.

VII. HOSTEL RULES
These rules apply to ALL residents who are allotted rooms in the Student hostels. No student
will be allowed to stay in the hostel unless enrolled in courses. The first point of contact for
all hostel-related issues is the Hostel Warden. Shiv Nadar IoE is a fully residential campus and
students enrolled at the University have to stay on the campus for the duration of their respective
programs (except PhD scholars). Please read the following carefully.

Section A
A.1 Occupancy at Hostel
Twin sharing/ single occupancy rooms are available in the hostels, which shall be allotted
to students by the Hostel Administration. Single rooms will not be allotted to UG (first
year students). Residents are to carry out the check- in/ check-out formalities when
occupying or vacating their rooms. Wardens will assist in the process.

A.2 Duration of Different Programs and Stay at the Hostel
•
Duration of Different Programs — Undergraduate Programs (B.Tech., B.Sc., B.A.),
minimum of 6 full semesters to maximum of 12 full semesters, ideally completed in
8 full semesters — Masters Programs (M.Tech., M.Sc., M.A.), four full semesters —
Ph.D. Program, eight to ten  full semesters (as per the residency requirements of the
particular program)
•Any student who needs to stay beyond the duration of their program will have to
seek permission from the office of Dean of Students for extension, which shall be
considered subject to the availability of rooms.
•All students have to deposit the hostel fees as directed. The hostel fees are for the
academic year (two semesters as per academic calendar) and not the calendar year.
Students are permitted to reside in a hostel on the condition that they rigorously
adhere to the hostel rules and university code of conduct. Rules ignorance will not be
accepted as an excuse for violation.
•The university administration may deny accommodation to any resident/student who
violates the hostel rules or whose presence is likely to disturb the peace and tranquility
of hostels. Violation of hostel rules will make the student liable to disciplinary action
which may include permanent expulsion from the hostel.

Section – B
B.1 General Rules and Regulations of Hostel/ Inside Campus

1. Student must stay in the rooms allotted to them. Changing of allotted rooms is not allowed
unless exceptions are authorized by the hostel administration on reasonable grounds and
availability.
2. For the first year UG students, an attendance will be taken at their respective hostel
reception from 11:30 PM to 12:00 AM (mid night). In view of the same the first year students
are expected to return to their respective hostels before 11:30 PM i.e. the time of attendance.
This restriction does not apply to all other students residing in the hostels; however, students
must use this freedom responsibly.
3. The students are not allowed to leave the campus before 06:30 AM and after 08:00 PM
on weekdays. All those who are outside the campus are required to return to the campus
premises before 08:00 PM on weekdays and 9.00PM on weekends.

Procedures for student entry and exit are as follows:

3.a On the same day, the allowed movement timings for UG, PG, MBA students (both In and
Out) are between 06:30 AM to 08:00 PM on weekdays, and 9 PM on weekends. It is mandatory
for all students to carry their Shiv Nadar IoE student ID card in physical form and register their
biometric at the gate, which will be checked and verified by the Security team.
3.b For students leaving campus and not returning the same day, a FastTrack system is in
place, for which the student must apply 6 hours prior to the time of leaving campus, this request
should be submitted along with the parental approval from their parents’ registered email id. The
warden will grant approval, as per the procedure.

4. Students are forbidden from playing loud music in the hostels and are prohibited
from causing any disturbances. The speakers will then be confiscated. When listening
to music, watching a movie, or playing computer games, earphones must be used.
5. Students are not allowed inside the campus housing. Students should get prior
approval from hostel head to meet their parent/guardian, if they reside in campus
housing.
6. Possession and/or consumption of alcoholic drinks, cigarettes, and substance
of abuse, inside and outside of the hostels, or in the university premises is either
completely prohibited or completely banned. Aiding, abetting, consumption and
possession of any such material and activities are liable to strict disciplinary action
leading to heavy fine that may lead to termination from the university rolls.

7. Trespassing into unauthorized area is a strictly punishable offence.
8. During a regular semester, the university administration may ask any student to
change rooms under special circumstances.
9. Students are required to always carry their identity card and produce it on demand
by any authorized person. Students will not be allowed to move in or out of campus
without a physical ID card.
10. Students are required to cooperate fully with the authorities to ensure security and
shall not argue with security personnel.
11. Warden or any other member (authorized by Office of DS) enrolled on Shiv Nadar
IoE rolls can inspect the room of any student at any time. Such an inspection shall be
done in the presence of at least one student enrolled with Shiv Nadar IoE.

12. Few designated places shall be provided to students to put-up their notices etc. in
consultation with the warden.
13. Students are expected to ensure cleanliness of their rooms and to help maintain
general upkeep of the hostel premises.
14. The electrical wiring/fittings in the hostel rooms are not designed for heavy loads;
therefore, the use of electrical appliances such as a heater, refrigerator, electric iron,
electric kettle, induction cooktop, Table / Pedestal Fans, room cooler (greater than
500 watts), immersion rod, etc. is prohibited. Other equipment with wattage exceeding
500 watts is not permitted. In addition to electrical equipment, no instruments of
any kind are allowed on hostel premises. These items may be confiscated if they are
utilised. The confiscated items will be returned prior to the end of the academic year.
If the offence is repeated and the items are confiscated, they will not be returned, and
the hostel administration may impose additional penalties as deemed appropriate.
15. Mess utensils are prohibited from being removed from dining facilities.

16. Any celebrations such as birthday celebrations/any parties are not allowed in hostel
premises. Please use /book a suitable location for the same outside of the hostel.
17. Cooking is not allowed inside the hostel rooms / premises, except for hostal
pantries.
18. Pets are not allowed inside the hostel.
19. Students are responsible for their belongings. The university is not responsible for
the theft of any personal belongings.

B.3 Exiting Out of Campus
•UG students are not permitted to leave the campus without explicit permission. The same
can be applied online using the FastTrack app. This includes absence on the university duty
such as participation in competitions /sports events etc. Issuance of such permits is a matter
of privilege and not a right. Student leaving hostel without the necessary permission shall
be deemed to be missing and parents/guardians/police authorities may be informed by the
Office of DS.
•Entry to the university campus is regulated, and students are required to cooperate with
university staff. Students must present their IDs whenever asked. If security regulations
mandate the maintenance of certain records, students must comply. The fast track entry
system is facilitated by biometric IDs.

B.4 Moving into Campus
All students must submit their medical information to the effect of any allergies or any other
ailment and any specific/special medical needs with relevant documents to the warden for
the hostel administration to take care in case of emergency.
All students must check the condition of their room thoroughly including bed, mattress and
the wall at the time of checking in.
The inventory form must be properly filled out, signed, and submitted to the hostel
administrator. Likewise, the check-out procedure necessitates a signature on the Inventory
form. In the event of any damage, they are required to submit a written application to their
respective wardens or send an email, as well as retain a copy of the written acknowledgement
of their complaint from their respective wardens. In the absence of this written proof (an
email or application), they would be responsible for paying the penalties or fine for the
damage incurred at the time of leaving the hostel/handing over the room. At the time of
check-in, students must also complete the Info Form provided by the warden.

B.5 Vacation Period
The University has winter and summer vacations for students in mid-December and during
mid-May to July respectively. Students shall be required to vacate their rooms before leaving
for the summer vacation (May-July) and carry all their belongings with them. The University,
however, may provide a cloakroom, entirely managed by the students. Any student willing
to avail this facility must properly pack and label their baggage. The university will not be
responsible of any loss or damage to the articles/baggage.
Residents shall require special permission from the Dean of Students to avail the hostel
accommodation for research/academic/internship or any other official work during vacation
periods. The Dean of Students shall grant such permission on the recommendation of faculty
sponsor/advisor and the head of the department. Such students shall be required to fill up
the form available with the ODS followed by the approvals and shall be required to pay
necessary hostel fees as per the University policy.

B.6 Visitors at the Hostel
Entry of the visitors in hostel will be restricted up till the designated areas in hostel reception
lobby. The visitors cannot stay beyond 5:00 PM unless otherwise approved by the Dean of
Students. Only parents whose information was registered with the university at the time
of admission will be permitted to remain on campus until 9 p.m., with prior notification
to the respective warden. Any student found to have visitor/s in their room or beyond the
designated area shall be liable to disciplinary action.

B.7 Hostel Inventory and Loss of/Damage to Hostel/Property of any Kind
The students are required to check the hostel room inventory carefully at the time of
checking-in. They shall be required to hand over the room back to the hostel authorities in
as good condition as it was provided to them. Any replacement of inventory articles such
as mattress, curtain rods, tube lights, fans, cupboard locks, keys, etc. during the regular
semester shall be the responsibility of the students.
•In case of intentional/ unintentional damage to any portion of the hostel buildings, furniture,
equipment, or other University property, the loss shall be recovered from the person/s
identified as the cause of such damage. However, if the persons responsible for the damage
cannot be identified, the cost of repairing the damage will be assessed and distributed
equally amongst all the inmates of that particular floor / hostel or group of inmates/students
of that wing of the hostel, found responsible for the damage. Please refer to Damage Policy
in Student Policy section via:

B.8 Use of Personal Vehicles
Students may use their personal bicycles for movement around the campus. These bicycles
are the responsibility of the students and are to be parked in an orderly manner in the
designated cycle parking.
•UG students are not permitted to bring/use any two or four-wheelers or any other form of
motorized transport on campus. If there is a genuine and valid reason and if the Dean of
Students and the Head of Admin approve it, self-driven vehicles would be permitted on
campus after undergoing a comprehensive check. The parking duration on campus must be
specified in the approved email. The daily commute is strictly forbidden.
•PG/Ph.D. students may bring their personal vehicles for the purpose of moving in and
out of the campus, but not for use inside the campus. Such students must seek specific
permission from the Dean of Students for bringing personal vehicles to the campus, along
with proof of ownership and other relevant, mandatory documents. The vehicles will remain
the responsibility of the students and SN IoE will not be responsible for their safety.
•Students are not permitted to park any motorized vehicles in or around the hostel blocks.
These are to be parked at Parking 1 only and not at other location.
•Any bicycle/vehicle parked in an unauthorized location will be impounded and released
after payment of a fine and time duration solely at the discretion of the Dean of Students.
•Cycles found to be lying unused/ abandoned at various spaces on campus for a prolonged
period will be collected by the administration and kept at a suitable location and such
cycles will be disposed-off as scrap after a certain duration.

VIII. COMMUNICATION WITHIN HOSTELS
Etiquette Do’s
There is a dedicated team of wardens to ensure your safety and comfort in the hostels. The
wardens who look over the hostel also reside there. For all hostel related issues please reach out to the respective wardens.
In such matters, the warden is always the first point of contact.

Suggested Format – Complaints
To: (for example Call bob)
CC: Warden
Subject: Light Not Working | Hostel 1A Room 23
Dear Sir/Ma’am
The light in my room is not working. Hostel 1A Room 23. Kindly have the same repaired. I will
be available in my room from to time.
Thank you,
Regards
<STUDENT NAME>
<COURSE NAME>
<STUDENT ID NUMBER>


Escalation Matrix - Hostel Issues
Warden -> Head Hostel Administration -> Dean of Students

IX. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY & ONLINE RESOURCES
The computing resources at Shiv Nadar IoE support the educational, instructional, research and
administrative activities of the University. As a user of these services and facilities, students
have access to valuable IoE resources, sensitive data, and to internal and external networks.
For all IT related concerns reach out to: ithelpdesk@snu.edu.in

The major services provided by the Information Technology department are:
•Messaging (email) service & productivity tools - G-suite for Education, Microsoft Office 365
Campus Connectivity – Inter building connectivity, LAN, Wi-Fi, and Internet services.
Collaboration Platforms for Online Classes like MS Teams, Google Meet, etc.
SNU ERP (Student Self-Service) & associated applications
••Biometric Access control systems
High Performance Computing Cluster
SNU Net ID (required for accessing various computing resources) and Self- service portal for
user account management.
Blackboard Learning Management System
•Lecture Capture facility in select classrooms
Classroom attendance infrastructure and intranet portal
Other Computing & Lab infrastructure

How you can get IT Support
The IT Team has deployed Service Management and Customer Service suite – OTRS. The tool
comprises of ticketing, workflow automation and notifications.
Email: your request to ithelpdesk@snu.edu.in
Walk-in: IT Bay E-Wing, Level 2 (E 301)

9.1 Shiv Nadar IoE Net ID
The University Net ID can be used for connecting to Wi-Fi, various LAB resource and for
authenticating various applications like University ERP, Blackboard, Student Attendance portal,
Student Payment Centre etc.

Please follow these simple Do’s and Don’ts when accessing the IT resources:
•Do not use another user’s account (Net ID or email ID) or attempt to capture or guess other
users passwords, which might lead to penalty.
•You can use your Net ID only on your own device(s).
•Sharing of Net ID credentials among students, faculty or staff is not permissible
•The connectivity provided in the Labs (through wired LAN) is only meant for the lab
systems and is not to be used for connecting individual devices (Laptops).
• For personal devices, genuine Operating System & Antivirus should be used. You are
advised to keep all critical patches updated on your device(s) at all times.

Email Services
Email services are provided to all students. The students should use only official University
email address for all communication with in the University. Email users have a responsibility to
learn about and comply with the University’s policies on acceptable use of electronic services.
The below are strictly prohibited:
•Sending spam, chain letters, or any other type of unauthorized widespread distribution of
unsolicited mail.
•Creation and use of a false or alias email address in order to impersonate another member
or send fraudulent communications.
•Intentional and unauthorized access to other another individual’s email account or group
email addresses.
For details, please visit the Student Policy section on SNU Links. Any violation or abuse of the
University’s IT or email service should be reported to
ithelpdesk@snu.edu.in
Note: Violation of the University’s IT policies and repeated offenses shall be regarded as cause
for disciplinary action.
9.2 Student Policies
Students need to check the various policies as applicable to them on SNU LINKS in the Student
Policies Section.
https://snulinks.snu.edu.in/snuPolicies/students/
9.3 Student Payment Center
Students are advised to check the student payment center regularly for any payment dues.
One can also access records of past payments on the portal.

Payment of Fee in Instalments
The University has an agreement with Grayquest Education Finance Pvt Ltd to enable payment
of fees in instalments at competitive rates. Those who wish to opt for this payment method are
required to indicate at the Student Payment Centre (SPC). More information on this is available
here:

9.4 Scholarship
Students are eligible for scholarships, depending on the scholarship types. Please refer to the
updated fee policy document available on SNU links for details related to the same.

9.5 Certificate Issuance System
Students prior giving the university / institution address for any government or private purpose
have to get permission from Registrar. Registrar has the authority for any certification issues to
any outside agency.
Please visit the Shiv Nadar IoE Links page, apply for the any Certificate/Registration Certificate
through the Certificate Issuance System (CIS).
The link for CIS is: https://cgs.webapps.snu.edu.in
Note: Format for all types of certificates are given. You can contact Office of the Registrar
(D012) for any other type of certificate which cannot be seen in CIS. For any queries,
write to: registraroffice@snu.edu.in
Office of the Registrar: The Office of the Registrar serves the students, faculty, and staff of the
University by performing a wide range of functions related to student services (like issuance
of official certificates/letter, degree certificates, transcript, Bonafide certificate, etc, keeping
records and academic administration.
9.6 Mobile App
Students are advised to download the Shiv Nadar IoE mobile app, which is available for download
on google play store and Apple app Store. It will soon enable students a one-click solution for
feedback/queries/complaints regarding academic and non- academic issues.
Features available on the app:
Campus, campus life and programs offered
Campus news
Campus map
Dining menu
Sports news and events
Information on research programs, international
partnerships, career development center
Kindly download the app from play store/ app store.

9.7 Additional Information/Services available with app login:

Clubs and Societies – communication, events & notifications
Gate Pass Request (FastTrack)
Transport Pooling
Helpdesk – can be used for raising IT & Hostel Maintenance related tickets/request.
Lost & found tracking
Timetable & Student Class Attendance Summary
Semester-wise grades
SOS feature to make emergency calls

X. UNDERGRADUATE DEGREE
REQUIREMENTS
To earn an undergraduate degree (major) at Shiv Nadar IoE, a student has to complete the
credit requirements for the opted major. The total credits for each major are at least 150 but
may be higher. (For instance, all B.Tech. programs require at least 160 credits). Apart from the
total credits, students have to meet each major’s particular course requirements as well as
the University requirements in the categories of core common curriculum and University wide
electives. Finally, in order to graduate, a student must have a final CGPA of at least 5.00.
A total of 42 credits in CCC and UWE courses must be earned by the student with a minimum
of 18 credits from each. Every department has an Undergraduate (UG) Advisor. The UG Advisor
is the first point of contact for any advice on academic matters. Please do contact them at the
Earliest.

Credits:
Each course offered at Shiv Nadar IoE carries credits that are calculated on the
basis of the number of contact hours per week (for a course) that runs the whole
semester. The listings of the credits are given as L:T:P, wherein L is the number of
lecture hours, T is the number of tutorial hours, and P is the number of lab sessions.
A typical lab session is of 2 to 3 hours of duration and is counted as one contact
hour. Once a student successfully completes a particular course, he/she shall have
earned as many credits as the course carries.

Grades:
At the completion of the credit course, every student who has registered for that course shall be awarded a letter grade.

To successfully complete a course, the student has to get at least the minimum passing grade of D in that course. The Cumulative Grade Point Average or CGPA is the weighted grade point average of all credit courses completed by the student up to that point. An illustration is given below:

An undergraduate student who fails to maintain a CGPA of at least 5.00 will be placed on Academic Probation.

If the CGPA of a Student falls below 4.00 at any time, from the end of Second Semester onwards, his/her Admission from the University Shall be terminated.

Duration: In general, a student can take between 6 to 12 full semesters to complete an
undergraduate program, with 8 semesters being the ideal. However, individual majors may
require more than 6 semesters as minimum. (`Full semester’ refers to the Spring (January
to May) and Monsoon (August to December) semesters.

Graduate Degree Requirements:

To earn a graduate degree in a specific program from Shiv Nadar IoE, a student has to complete the requirements as prescribed by the program. The requirements may consist of a mix of core and elective courses offered by the program. Several programs may also require completion of project/thesis for degree completion. The total credit requirements for graduation would vary depending on the program of study but shall not be less than 48 credits for a master’s degree.

The department shall prescribe the number of credits required from core and elective courses. Core courses are to be taken by all students of the program. The elective courses are choice based and may be offered by the program for students to choose from to fulfil their credit requirements. Detailed information regarding courses and degree requirements shall be available from individual departments. The postgraduate adviser of the program shall be available to provide more information and guide individual graduate students. The academic regulations for Master degree program is available in SNU Links.

Doctoral Programs:

The University’s Ph.D. program regulations define the academic requirement, rules and regulations for obtaining a doctoral degree. The respective departments and the student’s individual doctoral committee shall define the coursework requirement for a doctoral student. The individual courses shall follow the policies mentioned in master’s Program Regulation. The academic regulation for doctoral program along with other pertinent information is available on SNU Links:

Hostel Rules For Phd Scholars

All hostel rules are uniformly applicable to the residents of any student hostel. In this regard, Ph.D. scholars, being the senior most residents, are expected to be role models and maintain the highest standards. For purposes of allocation and room entitlement, Ph.D. scholars are required to quote their University Student Roll numbers for registering on HMS, even if they have dual/employee IDs as staff. Hostel rules are enunciated in brief, and in detail in the Policy Document.

ATTENDANCE POLICY FOR UG:

1. Attendance is mandatory for all courses.
2. All undergraduate students at Shiv Nadar IoE are expected to be present for all of the scheduled
classes. For whatever official or private reasons, a shortfall of no more than 25% is permitted on
each course.
3. Failure to meet the attendance requirements in a course will lead to an F* grade in that course.
4. Admit cards for appearing in the end term exam in all registered courses will be available
for students to download a day before the start of the exam. Any course in which a student is
registered and has not satisfied the minimum attendance requirement would not appear in the
admit card and hence the student will not be allowed to take that exam. The student would receive
F* grade in courses where attendance is short.

5. In the case of the first half CCC, if a student is short on attendance, the student will be barred
from taking the final examination. Please note that even if the student appears for the final
examination, the student will be awarded F* grade (due to attendance shortfall) via the Grade
Submission System in case no exceptions are made by the Dean of School.

XI. OPPORTUNITIES FOR UNDERGRADUATE RESEARCH (OUR)
The OUR program at the University gives students hands-on experience in conducting research
and independent work under faculty supervision. Through the program, students develop a
foundational understanding of how research is conducted in their disciplines, learn about possible resources and the way to utilize them as well as how to interpret research outcomes. This program has paved the way for students to learn by discovery, has enabled greater student-faculty interaction and expanded the level of research activity on campus; while also helping to identify and train potential candidates for the University’s graduate programs.

XII. STUDENT MOBILITY AND EXCHANGE PROGRAM
The Student Mobility and Exchange Program is designed to provide students with international
academic exposure and cultural immersion. The Office of Research and Partnerships manages the program at the university, which oversees all aspects of the semester abroad, including academic planning, logistics, and student support. 

Typically, outbound mobility and exchange program students spend one semester studying abroad at a partner university. The Office of Research and Partnerships manages the semester in close collaboration with the partner institution. Before departure, students attend pre-departure orientation sessions that cover academic expectations, cultural norms, and logistical details, such as visa requirements and housing arrangements.

Once abroad, students are supported by the partner institution’s international office and the
Shiv Nadar IoE office. The Office of Research and Partnerships monitors the students’ academic progress to ensure that they meet their home institution’s academic requirements.
Regular check-ins and assessments are conducted throughout the semester to ensure that students are making progress toward their academic goals.

At its essence, the outbound mobility and exchange program at Shiv Nadar Institution of Eminence is a comprehensive program that provides students with a valuable international experience while ensuring they receive the necessary support to succeed academically and personally during their semester abroad.

Inbound: Shiv Nadar Institution of Eminence welcomes a host of diverse students from our
globalized network of partner universities. Our world-class facilities attract learners from
around the world to pursue life-changing educational experiences at our university. Periods of
engagement traverse from one semester to full-year programs. Our academic programs offer
flexibility and unique skill-building experiences – unparalleled by other educational institutions.
Outbound: Our outbound mobility program provides students with the opportunity to study
specialized courses at foreign universities. Periods of engagement traverse from one semester
to full-year programs, with options for flexibility. Curated with the aim of providing life-changing
experiences for learners, the program deepens one’s understanding of diverse cultures and people.
To learn more, contact international.office@snu.edu.in
Note: Hostel fees are a part of Annual Fees. If a student is registered for a semester and does not have a year/semester drop, they will be charged the full Tuition and Hostel Fee whether the student stays or not, as we are a fully residential campus. The same applies to the final-year students pursuing an internship next semester. The university will not be refunding them the hostel fees as per policy.
Mess and Laundry fees are exempted for certain cases after an approval from the Dean of Research and Partnerships.
Mess & Laundry fees waiver
Mess & laundry fees are waived for students in their final year at Shiv Nadar IoE who participate in
off-campus internships or external projects as part of their academic curriculum and are selected
for Outbound Mobility or exchange programmes with partner universities. The waiver is valid for the
duration of the programme or as specified by the Office of the Dean of Students.
To apply for the waiver, students can obtain the requisite form from the Dean of Students’ Office.
Students will be required to provide relevant details regarding their final year programme, including
the name of the organisation or university where the internship, external project, or exchange
programme is being pursued, as well as the duration and other relevant data. Students must also
submit supporting documents, such as confirmation letters, an endorsement/approval from their
faculty/staff advisor, and department head.
The requisite form must be submitted in the Office of the Dean of Students 15 days prior to the
program’s commencement date. The Office will examine the applications and verify the students’
eligibility based on the provided information. The waiver of food and laundry charges will be
applied to the student’s account for the duration of the approved programme once the application
is approved. Students are required to promptly notify the Office of the Dean of Students of any
changes or modifications to the programme to ensure that the waiver is adjusted accordingly.

Facilities/Services:
1. Self-Book issue/ Return kiosk.
2. Dedicated Rooms for PG/ Ph. D Students.
3. Study Rooms for UG/PG/Ph. D Students.
4. 24/7 Room for All Users.
5. Library helpdesk for all users’ queries.
6. Reprography Services (Printing & Scanning).
7. Shiv Nadar IoE Library Homepage
( https://library.snu.edu.in/)
8. Shiv Nadar IoE Library Institutional Repository
(http://dspace.snu.edu.in:8080/jspui/)

XIII. LIBRARY ONLINE PUBLIC ACCESS CATALOGUE

The Shiv Nadar IoE Central Library, with its regal ship-like design, is one of the most frequented
locations on campus. The centrally air-conditioned library provides students and faculty with an
extensive collection of books, scientific and technical journals, and electronic reference materials for academic and research purposes. The library is comprised of numerous reference, circulation, audiovisual, and periodical sections, as well as e-journals, thesis and dissertations, and the repository.

Library circulation:
• Patron should have their University ID Cards. It also works as their library card.
• Students can borrow a maximum of two books in a day
• Books can be re-issued twice
Library Rules:
• Students must produce their ID card to enter the library.
• Talking on mobile phones inside the library is strictly prohibited
• Consumption of food & beverages is not allowed inside the library
• Playing games and watching movies are not allowed in the library
• Library Timings: 9 AM to 12 AM. (Monday to Sunday) (Monday to Sunday).

For more details, please get in touch with the library helpdesk on the ground floor of E block,
visit the website library.snu.edu.in, or write to libraryhelpdesk@snu.edu.in.
Please also watch out for the latest library use instructions on campus-wide emails.

XIV. ALUMNI RELATIONS OFFICE

1. The vision of the Alumni Relations Office is to interest, inform,
engage, and organize alumni to nurture mutually beneficial
relationships with Shiv Nadar IoE for promoting and providing
support to the University. This helps the university to progress
and enhance its position in the nation and around the world to
transform into a leading academia.
2. We have over 3600+alumni as part of our global network.
3. Organizing alumni meets with Bangalore, Chennai, Hyderabad
specific chapters, talk series, webinars, virtual alumni meet ups
are part of some of our alumni engagement activities.
4. We encourage you to read our alumni magazine’s editions
to enrich yourselves with some inspiring insights about our
alumni.
Read here: https://snu.edu.in/alumni.
5. Several successful entrepreneurs are part of our community,
like Tanmaya Jain and Varun Puri, founders of inFeedo, Rakesh
Munnarooru, founder of Whistle Drive, Harish Venkatesh,
Founder of Frozen Iris, to name a few.
Restricted acts with the alumni of the University:
Taking a member of the alumni to your hostel room is prohibited,
and if found, it may invite disciplinary action. At any point of
your stay or completion of any program at the campus, you
are restricted from entering the visitor’s hostel or involving in
any kind of restricted act: or in and out of the bound area of
an alumnus.
Get in touch to know more: alumnirelations@snu. edu.in.

Alumni Card Blocked:
The students/Alumni awarded the decision of ‘Alumni Card Blocked’ (SN IOE Alumni ID Cards)
by the internal disciplinary committees on account of any misbehaviour and misconduct
deemed by the ODS and Alumni Relations Office, Shiv Nadar IoE, the alumni ID card as well as
their membership will be subsequently considered invalid and suspended. This signifies that
the alumni card will not be accessible or useful in any form. They will be blacklisted as well,
barred from entering the university grounds and attending official events. The ODS and alumni
relations office reserves all the rights to suspend any individual with due reason and belief of
Contention.

MEMBERS OF THE TEAM

Office of Dean of Students
Brigadier Steve Ismail (Retd.)
Dean of Students
dean.students@snu.edu.in
steve.ismail@snu.edu.in
Extn : 111
Office location : D010/D236J

Dr. Anshu Narendra Paliwal
Associate Director & Head of Student Life
anshu.paliwal@snu.edu.in
Extn:655
Office location:D036D

Dr. Jitendra Prajapati
Assistant Dean, Student Mentoring
Assistant Professor, Department of
Electrical Engineering
jitendra.prajapati@snu.edu.in
Extn: 663 ;
Office location:C216A

Dr. Ankit Gupta
Assistant Dean, Student Conduct
Assistant Professor, Department of
Mechanical Engineering
ankit.gupta1@snu.edu.in
Extn: 667
Office location:C212
Ms. Karthika
Student Affairs Coordinator
karthika@snu.edu.in
Ext:462 ; Office location: D010

Mr. Sudhir Kumar
Associate Manager
sudhir.kumar@snu.edu.in
Ext. 837 ; Office location: D010

- Hostel Team

Capt. Anita Ganjoo
Head-Hostel Administration
anita.ganjoo@snu.edu.in
Ext. 455
Office location: D036A

Mr. Gaurav Bhardwaj
Sr. Warden (Boys‘ Hostel)
gaurav.bhardwaj@snu.edu.in
Ext. 6605

Ms. Anuradha Sharma
Sr. Warden (Girls‘ Hostel)
anuradha.sharma@snu.edu.in
Ext. 326

Mr. Vishveer Singh
Sr. Warden (Boys‘ Hostel)
vishveer.singh@snu.edu.in
Ext. 680

Ms. Neelam Chaudhary
Warden (Girls‘ Hostel)
neelam.chaudhary@snu.edu.in
Ext. 691

Ms. Preeti Jain
Warden (Girls‘ Hostel)
preeti.jain@snu.edu.in
Ext: 393

Mr. Balbeer Singh
Warden (Boy’s Hostel)
balbeer.singh@snu.edu.in
Ext: 728

Mr. Ameetava Mukherjee
Warden (Boys Hostel)
ameetava.mukherjee@snu.edu.in
Ext. 6869

Ms. Arpana Kumari
Warden (Girl’s Hostel)
arpana.kumari@snu.edu.in
Ext: 706

Ms. Vineeta Ruhela
Warden (Girls’Hostel)
vineeta.ruhela@snu.edu.in
Ext: 6931

Mr. Ajay Sharma
Warden (Boy’s Hostel)
ajay.sharma@snu.edu.in
Ext: 6617

Student Council

Student council is the apex student body of SN IoE. The primary objective of the student council
is to look after all the issues concerning the students of SN IoE. The grievances and suggestions of the students are directed to the concerned administration for addressal through the student council framework.

Sports Team

Dr. Amrish Tony
Director, Sports
amrish.tony@snu.edu.in
Ext. 724
Office location: ISC

Mr.Pawan Negi
Sr sports officer & Table tennis coach
pawan.negi@snu.edu.in
Ext:372

Mr.Ujjawal Bahuguna
Badminton Coach
ujjawal.bahuguna@snu.edu.in
Ext:372

Mr. Narendra Singh Bhandari
Football Coach
narender.bhandari@snu.edu.in

Mr.Sachin Bansal
Basketball coach
sachin.bansal@snu.edu.in

Ms.Sudipta Sil
Yoga Instructor
sudipta.sil@snu.edu.in

Mr. Jasveer Rana
Cricket Coach
jasveer.rana@snu.edu.in

Mr. Parminder Singh
Gym Instructor
Parminder.singh@snu.edu.in

Ms. Sachika Ingale
Squash Coach
sachika.ingale@snu.edu.in

Mr. Shaurya Singh
Internal Sports Coordinator
Shaurya.singh@snu.edu.in

Contact Sports Office:
Webpage: https://snu.edu.in/campus-life/sports
Email: snusports@gmail.com
Instagram: snusports_official
Facebook: DPE.SNUSPORTS

Office of the Registrar
The office of the Registrar serves the students, faculty, and staff of the University by performing
a wide range of functions related to student services (like issuance of official certificates/letter,
degree certificates, transcript etc.), keeping records and academic administration.

Mr. Sudhir Naudiyal
Registrar
registrar@snu.edu.in
Ext. 211
Office location: D012

Mr. Amit Kumar Agarwal
Assistant Registrar
amit.agarwal@snu.edu.in
Ext: 638
Office location: D012

Mr. Benoy James
Senior Coordinator
benjoy.james@snu.edu.in
Ext. 811
Office location: D012

Mr. Ravinder Kumar
Senior Executive
ravinder.kumar@snu.edu.in
Ext. 854
Office location: D012

Mr. Sudhanshu Kumar Singh
Senior Executive
sudhanshu.singh@snu.edu.in
Ext. 749
Office location: D012

Office of the Dean of Academics

The Office of the Dean of Academics has the responsibility for developing and implementing the
academic and administrative policies pertaining to the programs and students of the University,
in accordance with the University’s mission to “help students acquire and develop knowledge,
skills, and leadership qualities relevant in the 21st Century and beyond”.

Dr. Rajeev Kumar Singh
Associate Professor Computer Science & Engineering
Associate Dean – Academics
associatedean.academics@snu.edu.in
Ext: 247
Office location : B220B

Dr. Balamurugan Balusamy
Associate Dean
(Student Engagement) -
Office of Dean Academics
balamurugan.balusamy@snu.edu.in
Ext: 742
Office location: D036G

Dr. Ajit Kumar
Assistant Dean,
Office of Dean Academics
Assistant Professor, Department of
Mathematics
Email id: ajit.kumar@snu.edu.in
Ext: 270
Office location: A111

Dr. Shabana Mitra
Assistant Dean,
Office of Dean Academics
Assistant Professor, Department of
Economics
Email id: shabana.mitra@snu.edu.in
Ext: 453
Office location: D120B

Dr. Ankur Mehra
Assistant Dean, Office of Dean Academics
Assistant Professor, Department of Finance
Accounting and Control
E: ankur.mehra@snu.edu.in
Ext: 421
Office location: B220F

Shailendra Kumar Shukla
Deputy Manager,
Office of Dean Academics
Email id: shailendra.shukla@snu.edu.in
Office location: D016

Rahul Ishwar
Deputy Manager,
Office of Dean Academics
Email id: rahul.ishwar@snu.edu.in
Ext: 395
Office location: D016

Ashraf Saeed
Technical Assistant,
Office of Dean Academics
Email id: ashraf.saeed@snu.edu.in
Ext: 731
Office location: D016

Neha Gautam
Assistant Academic Coordinator,
Office of Dean Academics
Email id: neha.gautam@snu.edu.in
Ext: 740
Office location: D016

Vikas Singh
Program Coordinator, Office of Dean
Academics
Email id: vikas.singh@snu.edu.in
Ext: 122
Office location: B220.1

Annexure A
Suggestive list: Items to be brought for day to day needs
•Bedspreads/ bed sheets/ towel
•Mattress, pillow and pillow covers.
•Bucket, mug, soap case
•Cloth hangers
•Toiletries for personal use (soap, shampoo, toothpaste, shaving razor/cream, etc.)
•Umbrella
•An extra pair of spectacles (if applicable)
•Table Lamp
•Padlock with 4 (four) Keys
•Mosquito coil/repellants
•Water bottles
•A suitcase (with a lock) for keeping personal effects in the hostel room
•Torch
•Personal medicines
•Extra pair of spectacles
•Face mask
•Blanket and woolen clothing for winters (can also be purchased after a couple of months)
•A pair of bathroom slippers and sneakers
•Hand gloves
•Sanitizer
•Bicycle (optional)

Annexure B

Please access the following policies on SNU Links: https://snulinks.snu.edu.in/snuPolicies/
students/
68
•Policy for OCJ (On Campus Job)
•Policy on Change of Major for UG
•Anti-Ragging Affidavit
•Fee Policy
•Damages Policy
•Transcript Issuance Policy
•Gender Policy
•UG Handbook - Academics
•Policy on Academic Malpractice
•UG Minor Programs Offered at the University
•Whistleblower Policy
•Policy for Dealing with violation of the student Code of Conduct.

Know Your Area

For a Shopping Spree (approximately)

03 km – Dadri
13 km – Omaxe Connaught Place Mall
15 km – INOX Greater Noida
15 km - Grand Venice Mall
16 km – Ansal Plaza
22 km – Opulent mall Ghaziabad
53 km – DLF Mall of India
54 km – Sarojini Nagar
55 km – Khan Market
55 km – Connaught Place
56 km – Chandini Chowk
58 km – Haus Khas Village
60 km – Saket Select City Walk

For Travel Enthusiast (approximately)

46 km – Okhla Bird Sanctuary
48 km – Akshardham
53 km – Humayun Tomb
54 km – Lodhi Garden
55 km – India Gate
56 km – Qutub Minar
56 km – Jama Masjid
61 km – Garden of 5 Senses

Emergency Services

Save the Emergency Phone Number: 7042644450 available 24/7 hrs. It will get connect to the security.
(see at the back of ID card)
(or)
Press SOS option available in the Shiv Nadar IoE app*
*It is mandatory for students to download SN IoE app from playstore / appstore.
The Institution reserves the right to make additions, deletions, or changes to these policies at any time. The most updated version of The Student Handbook is located on this website and was most recently updated in July 2023. The content of the handbook applies to any student/scholar enrolled in any Course, Program at Shiv Nadar IOE, including Exchange Students.



